PHEP 3: PyHC Python & Upstream Package Support Policy (#29)
heliophysicsPy/standards: pheps/phep-0003.md

```
PHEP: 3
Title: PyHC Python Support Policy
Author: Shawn Polson <pyhc-confidential@lasp.colorado.edu> <https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0619-5745>
Discussions-To: https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29
Revision: 1
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Content-Type: text/markdown; charset=UTF-8; variant=CommonMark
Created: 06-Jun-2024
Post-History: 06-Jun-2024
```

# Abstract
<a name="abstract"></a>
This PHEP recommends that all projects across the PyHC ecosystem adopt a common time-based policy for support of Python versions, similar to [NEP 29](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html) and [SPEC-0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/). Specifically, it recommends that:

> 1. Support for Python versions be dropped **42 months** (3.5 years) after their initial release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Support for Python versions should be continued for **42 months** (3.5 years) after their initial release.
```
I think it'd be fine for packages to support older versions of Python if they decide to (though supporting older versions of Python & dependencies sometimes comes with an increased maintenance burden).

Author: Thanks for this feedback Nick. I'll stick with the "drop support" language for now. I'll also add a sentence explicitly stating packages may support older Python versions if they want, which effectively means this policy has to be a "should" not a "must." I was leaning that direction anyway.

mermaid_gantt = """gantt
    dateFormat  YYYY-MM-DD
    title       Python Version Support Window
    axisFormat  %m / %Y

    section python
"""

for _, row in df.iterrows():
    mermaid_gantt += f"    {row['python version']} : {row['release'].strftime('%Y-%m-%d')},{row['drop'].strftime('%Y-%m-%d')}\n"

# Save the Mermaid syntax to a Markdown file
# The Mermaid Gantt chart syntax is saved in 'python_version_support_chart.md'.
# You can paste the content of that file into https://mermaid.live/ to generate the chart image.
with open("python_version_support_chart.md", "w") as file:
    file.write(mermaid_gantt)

print("Version support schedule saved to 'python_version_support_schedule.csv'")
print("Mermaid Gantt chart syntax saved to 'python_version_support_chart.md' (render at https://mermaid.live/)")
```

# Rejected Ideas
<a name="rejected-ideas"></a>
[SPEC-0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/)'s 36-month support timeline was considered instead of [NEP 29](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html)'s 42 months, but it was ultimately decided that the extra stability of 42 months is more desirable.

# Open Issues
<a name="open-issues"></a>

> 1. This PHEP recommends supporting Python versions for 42 months (3.5 years) which is in line with [NEP 29](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html), _not_ 36 months (3 years) as recommended by [SPEC-0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/). The thinking is that 42 months is more lenient and therefore less of a burden to the community, but is that the right call? Should it be 36 months instead?

Reviewer 2: On the numpy page it says:

> This NEP is superseded by the scientific python ecosystem coordination guideline [SPEC 0 — Minimum Supported Versions](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/).

So maybe we should adopt SPEC-0 instead?

Reviewer: Wow, I missed that entirely! And I go to the NEP 29 page kind of a lot!  I agree we should now go with SPEC 0 instead of NEP 29.

The upstream Scientific Python packages are: `numpy, scipy, matplotlib, pandas, scikit-image, networkx, scikit-learn, xarray, ipython, zarr`.

This policy will replace the current standard [#11](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/blob/main/standards.md#standards) which simply mandates Python 3 support.

# Motivation
<a name="motivation"></a>
The current PyHC standard [#11](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/blob/main/standards.md#standards), which mandates compatibility with Python 3, is outdated. Python 3 support is virtually universal now, so it would be more beneficial to replace this standard with a policy for how to support new minor Python versions and key upstream dependencies. [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/) provides a structured support timeline that balances stability and progress, essential for software in the heliophysics community. Adopting a similar policy ensures consistency and predictability in support timelines. Additionally, limiting the scope of supported versions is an effective way for packages to limit maintenance burden while promoting interoperability.

# Rationale
<a name="rationale"></a>

> Following [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/)'s 24/36-month support timeline keeps PyHC in better sync with the broader Scientific Python community, maintaining compatibility with newer Python features and key upstream dependencies, while providing adequate time for package maintainers to adapt. Allowing 6 months to adopt new versions ensures packages stay current with development cycles while providing a reasonable timeframe for testing and integration.

Reviewer 3: I think it should be worth adding to the rationale that reducing the number of versions supported by projects reduces the maintenance burden. It's almost impossible to test oldest supported versions of all packages in a pre-SPEC 0 land.

SunPy basically used to bump our minimum versions when our CI failed, since adopting NEP 29 / SPEC 0 we haven't had to do that at all. So we have a lot more confidence that our code actually works with a concrete set of minimum deps which are clear to everyone.

Reviewer: > I think it should be worth adding to the rationale that reducing the number of versions supported by projects reduces the maintenance burden.

💯 Absolutely right! This is personally my main motivation for adopting SPEC 0.

> It's almost impossible to test oldest supported versions of all packages in a pre-SPEC 0 land.

🦀 `uv` has [resolution strategies](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv?tab=readme-ov-file#resolution-strategy) for `--lowest` and `--lowest-direct` which makes it pretty straightforward nowadays to test against the oldest supported versions of either all dependencies or direct dependencies.  (We use `--lowest-direct` for PlasmaPy because some dependencies don't list minimum required versions of their dependencies.)

> SunPy basically used to bump our minimum versions when our CI failed, since adopting NEP 29 / SPEC 0 we haven't had to do that at all. So we have a lot more confidence that our code actually works with a concrete set of minimum deps which are clear to everyone.

Adopting NEP 29 / SPEC 0 has worked really well for PlasmaPy too!

Author: The last sentence of the `Motivation` section immediately preceding this `Rationale` one is: 

> `Additionally, limiting the scope of supported versions is an effective way for packages to limit maintenance burden while promoting interoperability.`

We probably don't need to say that twice in back-to-back sections? @Cadair @namurphy would you prefer I move that sentence from `Motivation` to `Rationale`? Or leave it as-is? Or would it actually be better to say that in both sections?

Reviewer: Good point!  Personally, I'll be happy with it so long as it's mentioned in at least one place in the document.

Author: My recent push kept it in the same place. @Cadair if you'd like me to move it under `Rationale` instead I happily will.

# Specification
<a name="specification"></a>
This PHEP refers to feature releases of dependencies (e.g., Python 3.12.0, NumPy 2.0.0; not Python 3.12.1, NumPy 2.0.1). 

> This PHEP specifies that all PyHC packages should:

Reviewer 3: I think we should be clear we are taking these requirements from SPEC 0 and that SPEC 0 is the "source of truth".
```suggestion
This PHEP adopts Scientific Python's SPEC 0 which specifies that packages should:
```

Author: I wanted to use that phrasing too actually, that we're "adopting SPEC 0", but SPEC 0 doesn't specify that packages should adopt new versions within 6 months like our third bullet here does. So I couldn't easily wordsmith that...

Author: Thought about it harder and came up with: 

> This PHEP adopts Scientific Python's [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/) and specifies that all PyHC packages should:

1. Support Python versions for at least **36 months** (3 years) after their initial release.
2. Support upstream Scientific Python packages for at least **24 months** (2 years) after their initial release.
3. Adopt support for new versions of these dependencies within **6 months** of their release.

> The upstream Scientific Python packages are: `numpy, scipy, matplotlib, pandas, scikit-image, networkx, scikit-learn, xarray, ipython, zarr`.

Reviewer 3: Why this list of packages?

I know that they are the SP core packages, but why is that relevant to PyHC?

Author: Simply because they're the packages controlled by SPEC 0. I wouldn't call it a comprehensive list of upstream packages PyHC cares about, but it's many of them and a great start. I was avoiding extending beyond the bounds of SPEC 0.

Reviewer 4: I vote for dropping the list (see comment above).

Since new minor Python versions are released annually every October ([PEP 602](https://peps.python.org/pep-0602/)), this effectively means that PyHC packages should be supporting about three minor Python versions at any given time. Upstream packages have more varied release schedules, but several recent versions should typically be supported concurrently. Providing ongoing support for older versions beyond the specified support periods is optional. 

![Dependency Support Window](phep-0003/dependency-support-window.svg)

> PyHC packages should clearly document their dependency version policy (e.g., like [PlasmaPy](https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/contributing/coding_guide.html#python-and-dependency-version-support) and [SpacePy](https://spacepy.github.io/dep_versions.html)) and be tested against the minimum and maximum supported versions. Testing with CI against release candidates is encouraged, too, as a way to stay ahead of future releases. Packages that use semantic versioning should consider using their version number to indicate versions that drop support for older dependencies. There is no expectation that a package "deprecate" an older dependency before dropping support for it. However, there is an expectation that maximum or exact requirements (e.g., `numpy<2` or `matplotlib==3.5.3`) be set only when absolutely necessary (and that GitHub issues be immediately created to remove such requirements).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
PyHC packages should clearly document their dependency version policy (e.g., like [PlasmaPy](https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/contributing/coding_guide.html#python-and-dependency-version-support) and [SpacePy](https://spacepy.github.io/dep_versions.html)) and be tested against the minimum and maximum supported versions. Testing with CI against release candidates is encouraged, too, as a way to stay ahead of future releases. Packages that use semantic versioning should consider using their version number to indicate versions that drop support for older dependencies. There is no expectation that a package "deprecate" an older dependency before dropping support for it. However, there is an expectation that maximum or exact requirements (e.g., `numpy<2` or `matplotlib==3.5.3`) be set only when absolutely necessary (and that issues be immediately created to remove such requirements).
```

(also you should do one sentence per line to make it easier to comment on and version control :laughing:)

This new policy will replace the current standard [#11](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/blob/main/standards.md#standards) in the PyHC standards document with the following new text:

> **11. Python and Upstream Package Support:** All packages should support minor Python versions released within the last 36 months (3 years) and upstream core Scientific Python packages released within the last 24 months (2 years). Additionally, packages should support new versions within 6 months of their release (see [PHEP 3](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29)). 

Lastly, if there is a Python 4 or other significant changes in dependencies, this policy will have to be reviewed in light of the community's and projects' best interests.

# Backwards Compatibility
<a name="backwards-compatibility"></a>
This policy potentially introduces backwards incompatibilities by enforcing a new support timeline, which may encourage some packages to drop support for older dependency versions sooner than planned.

# Security Implications
<a name="security-implications"></a>

> There are no direct security implications of this policy. However, ensuring packages are updated to newer dependency versions may indirectly improve security by incorporating fixes and improvements from newer releases.

Reviewer 3: I would say updating your dependencies is a pretty direct security improvement, especially if they are no longer supported.
```suggestion
There are no direct security implications of this policy. However, ensuring packages are updated to newer dependency versions may improve security by incorporating fixes and improvements from newer releases.
```

# How to Teach This
<a name="how-to-teach-this"></a>

>  - A new web page under the PyHC Projects page detailing the support schedule (similar to the Gantt chart in SPEC 0)? 

Reviewer 3: If our chart is going to be exactly the same as the SPEC 0 one, surely we can just link to it?

Author: It's not exactly the same chart although it is generated via the same code (my chart here is an updated version of what's on the SPEC 0 page).

 - Automated email reminders sent quarterly and/or near upcoming drop/support dates? 

# Reference Implementation
<a name="reference-implementation"></a>
Multiple PyHC packages already follow this version support policy. One notable example is PlasmaPy which currently [documents their SPEC 0-based policy](https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/contributing/coding_guide.html#python-and-dependency-version-support) and even mentions it in comments inside their [pyproject.toml](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/blob/main/pyproject.toml) file.

> ## Code to generate support and drop schedules:

Reviewer 3: Has this code been modified from the SPEC 0 version? if not can't we just link it?

Author: Yeah the code has been modified, to include 6-month "support by" dates.

```
PHEP: 3
Title: PyHC Python & Upstream Package Support Policy
Author: Shawn Polson <pyhc-confidential@lasp.colorado.edu> <https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0619-5745>
Discussions-To: https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29
Revision: 1
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Content-Type: text/markdown; charset=UTF-8; variant=CommonMark
Created: 06-Jun-2024
Post-History: 06-Jun-2024, 11-Jun-2024, 02-Jul-2024, 17-Jul-2024, 23-Jul-2024
```

# Abstract
<a name="abstract"></a>

> This PHEP recommends that all projects across the PyHC ecosystem adopt a common time-based policy for support of dependencies, inspired by [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/). 

Reviewer 4: Is "recommend" the right word? This gets into the question of applicability of PHEPs which I think we're still feeling out as a community, but I'd suggest stronger wording:
"This PHEP establishes a common time-based policy for support..."

Author: This is something Julie and I should discuss but I suspect we'll end up leaving the "recommend" wording. This PHEP was originally written as more of a "must" but the first major pushback I got in the earlier comments were people requesting I soften the policy; hence why `We decided this policy has to be a "should" not a "must."` is the second bullet under the `Resolved questions and comments` section of this PR's description. It also more closely follows SPEC 0's wording which uses "recommend."

Author: I'll add that even if I started this first sentence with "This PHEP establishes a common time-based policy for support...", the word "recommends" occurs immediately in the next line. So I'd have to change that wording and all subsequently-related statements to match, which again goes against what we'd previously decided.

Reviewer 4: Not a hill I intend to die on. But maybe worth putting explicitly in the rejected ideas? E.g. "it was considered making this a requirement rather than a recommendation but the community argued against because xyz"?

Author: Done.

Specifically, for Python versions and the upstream Scientific Python packages covered by SPEC 0, it recommends that projects:
1. Support Python versions for at least **36 months** (3 years) after their initial release.
2. Support upstream Scientific Python packages for at least **24 months** (2 years) after their initial release.
3. Adopt support for new versions of these dependencies within **6 months** of their release.

> The upstream Scientific Python packages are: `numpy, scipy, matplotlib, pandas, scikit-image, networkx, scikit-learn, xarray, ipython, zarr`.

Reviewer 4: Do we want to list these, or simply reference SPEC0 and leave it at that? Implicitly then as SPEC0 updates the goal of this policy would update.

I also do like wording like "other dependencies which follow similar versioning schemes should be similarly supported."

Author: I believe there's merit in being clear about which packages this policy applies to by explicitly listing them. And they [do say](https://scientific-python.org/specs/core-projects/#how-many-core-projects-should-there-be) that their list of core projects will not change rapidly. But I do like the idea of this list implicitly updating if the core Scientific Python packages ever do change, so here's what I'll do: 

1. Say "upstream *core* Scientific Python packages"
2. In the Abstract, change it to: `At the time of writing, the upstream [core Scientific Python packages](https://scientific-python.org/specs/core-projects/) are: numpy, scipy, matplotlib, pandas, scikit-image, networkx, scikit-learn, xarray, ipython, zarr. `
3. In the Specification, clarify that by saying: `At the time of writing, the upstream [core Scientific Python packages](https://scientific-python.org/specs/core-projects/) are: numpy, scipy, matplotlib, pandas, scikit-image, networkx, scikit-learn, xarray, ipython, zarr. If their core packages are updated, this policy applies to the updated list instead.` 

Additionally, while your wording about other dependencies sounds good, I don't want to be vague and introduce uncertainty about which packages this policy applies to. We're simply adopting SPEC 0 here, and SPEC 0 only applies to their core packages, so our policy should do the same.

> This policy will replace the current standard [#11](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/blob/main/standards.md#standards) which simply mandates Python 3 support.

Reviewer 4: Present tense ("replaces") seems more appropriate--if approved, this is happening.

Author: Agreed.

[SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/) provides a structured support timeline that balances stability and progress, essential for software in the heliophysics community. 
Adopting a similar policy ensures consistency and predictability in support timelines. 
Additionally, limiting the scope of supported versions is an effective way for packages to limit maintenance burden while promoting interoperability.

# Rationale
<a name="rationale"></a>
Following [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/)'s 24/36-month support timeline keeps PyHC in better sync with the broader Scientific Python community, maintaining compatibility with newer Python features and key upstream dependencies, while providing adequate time for package maintainers to adapt. 
Allowing 6 months to adopt new versions ensures packages stay current with development cycles while providing a reasonable timeframe for testing and integration.

# Specification
<a name="specification"></a>
This PHEP refers to feature releases of dependencies (e.g., Python 3.12.0, NumPy 2.0.0; not Python 3.12.1, NumPy 2.0.1). 

> This PHEP adopts Scientific Python's [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/) and specifies that all PyHC packages should:

Reviewer 4: Rather than "specifies that all PyHC packages should" I'd say "specifies that packages must". I.e. a package that is compliant with this PHEP must support that much. The question of the consequences of noncompliance feels more appropriately dealt with elsewhere (e.g. PHEP4 which I haven't looked at yet :) )

I also think involvement in PyHC is sort of implied in the context.

Author: This goes back to my reply above about how we previously decided this policy has to be a "should" not a "must." With regard to PHEP 4, rather than thinking about it as "consequences of noncompliance" I'm thinking about it like "if you follow PHEP 3's recommendation then you are compliant for PHEP 4's sake."

Point taken about PyHC involvement being implied, but saying "PyHC" only adds one word and I like the clarity :)

1. Support Python versions for at least **36 months** (3 years) after their initial release.
2. Support upstream Scientific Python packages for at least **24 months** (2 years) after their initial release.
3. Adopt support for new versions of these dependencies within **6 months** of their release.

The upstream Scientific Python packages are: `numpy, scipy, matplotlib, pandas, scikit-image, networkx, scikit-learn, xarray, ipython, zarr`.

Since new minor Python versions are released annually every October ([PEP 602](https://peps.python.org/pep-0602/)), this effectively means that PyHC packages should be supporting about three minor Python versions at any given time. 
Upstream packages have more varied release schedules, but several recent versions should typically be supported concurrently. 
Providing ongoing support for older versions beyond the specified support periods is optional. 

> ![Dependency Support Window](phep-0003/dependency-support-window.svg)

Reviewer 4: Can the context of this be explicitly labeled? E.g. "this is status as of adoption of this PHEP"?

Author: Sorry, maybe it's because it's late but I don't understand this question. Please clarify?

Reviewer 4: Just specifically label "this is the dependency support window as of the time this PHEP is adopted" not for all time.

Author: Done.

Additionally, packages should support new versions within 6 months of their release (see [PHEP 3](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29)). 

Lastly, if there is a Python 4 or other significant changes in dependencies, this policy will have to be reviewed in light of the community's and projects' best interests.

# Backwards Compatibility
<a name="backwards-compatibility"></a>
This policy potentially introduces backwards incompatibilities by enforcing a new support timeline, which may encourage some packages to drop support for older dependency versions sooner than planned.

# Security Implications
<a name="security-implications"></a>
There are no direct security implications of this policy. 
However, ensuring packages are updated to newer dependency versions may improve security by incorporating fixes and improvements from newer releases.

# How to Teach This
<a name="how-to-teach-this"></a>
 - A new web page on the PyHC website will detail the support policy and include a graphical timeline of the schedule (similar to the Gantt chart above).

>  - Automated email reminders will be sent via the PyHC mailing list quarterly and near important drop/support dates to remind package maintainers of the schedule.

Author: It's definitely gonna be my burden so I agree it'd be good to clarify this is the Tech Lead's job! I'll reword.

# Reference Implementation
<a name="reference-implementation"></a>
Multiple PyHC packages already follow this version support policy. 
One notable example is PlasmaPy which currently [documents their SPEC 0-based policy](https://docs.plasmapy.org/en/stable/contributing/coding_guide.html#python-and-dependency-version-support) and even mentions it in comments inside their [pyproject.toml](https://github.com/PlasmaPy/PlasmaPy/blob/main/pyproject.toml) file.

## Code to generate support and drop schedules:

> ```python

Reviewer 4: Can it be explicitly noted that this code is the source of the included Gantt chart? Does it make more sense to put it elsewhere (in this repository or otherwise) and link it from here, as something that is live updated as necessary without having to update the PHEP?

Author: You got it. I'll add "`The following code can be used to generate support and drop schedules, including the Gantt chart above.`" between the header and the code.

I considered putting the code elsewhere, like in a separate file and linking to it, but decided not to for two main reasons: (1) SPEC 0 included their code in-line inside the SPEC and I liked that. (2) I honestly do not intend to formally maintain this code. Sure the dates etc will eventually become obsolete after enough time passes, but ain't nobody got time to remember to update dates in an obscure script! It's valid now and a good enough starting point for anyone who wants to use it in the future (likely only me tbh).

with open("schedule.md", "w") as fh:
    # we collect package 6 month in the past, and drop the first quarter
    # as we might have filtered some of the packages out depending on
    # when we ran the script.
    tb = []
    for quarter in list(sorted(set(dq_drop.index.get_level_values(0))))[1:]:
        tb.append(make_quarter(quarter, dq_drop, dq_support_by))

    fh.write("\n\n".join(tb))
    fh.write("\n")

```

# Rejected Ideas
<a name="rejected-ideas"></a>
 - [NEP 29](https://numpy.org/neps/nep-0029-deprecation_policy.html)'s more lenient 42-month support timeline was originally considered instead of [SPEC 0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/)'s 36 months, but it was ultimately decided to follow SPEC 0 because it supersedes NEP 29.
 - The scope of this PHEP was originally limited to Python version support. 
 However, it was decided that including the upstream package support policy from SPEC 0 would better promote PyHC package interoperability and avoid the need for a future separate PHEP.

# Open Issues
<a name="open-issues"></a>
1. What should go in the "How to Teach This" section? Should we expand on the ideas already there or take it a different direction?

> Or leave it if it is sufficient already?

Author: Note that in the absence of feedback I'd now consider "leave it" the default option here.

There is no expectation that a package "deprecate" an older dependency before dropping support for it. 
However, there is an expectation that maximum or exact requirements (e.g., `numpy<2` or `matplotlib==3.5.3`) be set only when absolutely necessary (and that issues be immediately created to remove such requirements), and packages must not require versions of any dependency older than 24 months. 
Additionally, if a package has been supporting specific OS versions and CPU architectures (e.g., releasing binary [wheels](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/discussions/package-formats/#what-is-a-wheel)), this support should continue for new OS versions and architectures to maintain the same level of support as before.

This new policy replaces the current standard [#11](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/blob/main/standards.md#standards) in the PyHC standards document with the following new text:

> **11. Python and Upstream Package Support:** All packages should support minor Python versions released within the last 36 months (3 years) and upstream core Scientific Python packages released within the last 24 months (2 years). 

> Additionally, packages should support new versions within 6 months of their release (see [PHEP 3](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29)). 

Author: I'm gonna say yes we need this. For now, the old standards doc is still PyHC's official standards and I will replace the text of standard 11 in that doc with what's written here.

> Additionally, packages should support new versions within 6 months of their release (see [PHEP 3](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29)). 

Reviewer 4: Let's discuss in the morning how we want to handle this; fortunately that's before the PHEP3 vote :)

> Additionally, packages should support new versions within 6 months of their release (see [PHEP 3](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29)). 

Reviewer 4: @sapols I like referencing the PHEP from the standards, but do we want the link to be to the PR discussion, to the PHEPs page on the website, to the .md blob in the repo, or to the Zenodo DOI?

> Additionally, packages should support new versions within 6 months of their release (see [PHEP 3](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29)). 

Author: @jtniehof I should be more familiar with that process than I am; a Zoom would be handy. Are you saying it's possible to "start" the Zenodo record and reserve the DOI before we have an official document to upload?

> Additionally, packages should support new versions within 6 months of their release (see [PHEP 3](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/pull/29)). 

Reviewer 4: Yep, you can [reserve a DOI](https://github.com/heliophysicsPy/standards/blob/main/RELEASE.md#reserve-a-doi-on-zenodo). I'll loop in on scheduling a time to tag up.
